Sessions and cookies are both aspects of a website. Sessions are used to determine how long a person was using a website (Eloone). It represents the time spent on the page starting from when the person first started browsing the page to when they leave the site. Although, a user may leave part way through their browse, thus leaving the page open, but without any activity, making it hard to tell if the site is in use or not (Eloone). Some websites have session timeouts that make people log back in, as a security measure, if the page has not been touched or subsequent pages are not requested by the user. Romannet, for example, requires its users to enter their password before accessing their information again after not visiting the page for a while. Many other dynamic sites will have this to protect private information that may be stored on a profile in that website. Before a session expires, though, it is used as a like a “volatile memory” that is quickly accessible and allocated to each user who is using the application, and when the user quits, it is destroyed (Eloone). How a website chooses to store this temporary information specific to the user could be on the file system, on a database, or in the internal memory of the program executing the application (Eloone). Sessions are key-value pairs, and the session can be stored either on the server or in the client (Eloone). If it is stored on the client, it will be stored in the browser, otherwise it will be stored in cookies, and given session IDs specific to them. One can log into a session, as a client, by giving the server their session ID, and then will be granted access to the data stored in that session ID. 
	Cookies are used by most major websites because cookies provide capabilities that make the Web much easier to navigate, and make it easy to gather accurate information about the site’s visitors. Cookie data is simply name-value pairs stored on your hard disk by a website (Brian). Later, the website can receive the data back that the cookie  assigned to that website has been storing, but it cannot take information from other cookies or anything else on the computer (Brian). Many people feared cookies were like programs collecting personal information about the user from the machine, but they are simply places to store data for specific websites. Cookies do allow a site to state information, or remember that an ID exists for a certain website already because the user has visited this site before (Brian). This is helpful when logging back into a website that a user may visit a lot, because the cookie allows the site to realize the user is returning and work on locating its existing ID. Although cookies can be benign, there is a reason people feel spooked using them: one’s information can be sold (Brian)! When one logs in to order a product online, they must store their name, address, phone number, and purchase order on the computer, which can be sold to other companies selling similar products. This is why, after online shopping, banner ads from the same or similar store will appear on other web searches. 
	Sessions and cookies both have the potential to be a security risk. For sessions, a session ID can be accepted without verifying they come from the IP that started them, thus allowing a hacker access to private information. As already mentioned, most cookies are harmless, but some cookies have a Spyware on them to gather private information. Some ways to combat these security risks are by logically choosing who to share a network with, and make sure that everyone with potential access to one’s information is trustworthy (Pash). Additionally, making sure to use HTTPS websites instead of HTTP that will be more secure will increase chances of safety online (Pash). While sessions and cookies are vital to many websites and make it easier for people to access their information on desired websites, one should always be careful about what they put on the internet. 


Brian, Marshall. "How Internet Cookies Work." HowStuffWorks. N.p., 26 Apr. 2000. Web. 	07 May 2016.

Eloone. "How Does a Web Session Work ?" Machines Are Digging. N.p., 29 Oct. 2013. 	Web. 07 May 2016.

Pash, Adam. "A Guide to Sniffing Out Passwords and Cookies (and How to Protect 	Yourself Against It)." Lifehacker. N.p., 26 Oct. 2011. Web. 09 May 2016.



