There are many different computing languages, all which use object oriented design, as mentioned in a previous blog. Although all the CS languages have many similarities, there are many variations that makes some more useful than others. I will be exploring scripting code today. Written most like english, scripting code is extremely useful when learning to program applications. 
	Perl, Python, and Ruby are considered scripting code, because they “automate tasks which would otherwise be done manually by a computer user” (Programming). These languages are used to extend the functionality of existing software, but is not as useful when trying to create your own program. Since perl, python, and ruby are used to connect system components, it is often referred to as “”glue code”” (Programming).  
Perl is a general-purpose programming language originally developed for text manipulation. It is now used for a wide range of tasks including system administration, web development, network programming, GUI development, and more (Programming). However, Perl is less sufficient when working on real time of high performance applications, as a replacement for shell scripts, as a web scripting language, or in an obfuscated fashion (You). Perl has certain applications where it thrives, like as a database manipulation tool, but is less effective as a universal language. Especially compared to Python and Ruby which are tied for second in the 2016 Average Developer Salary in the U.S. ranking (What Programming). Python has been used to build desktop apps and web applications. Applications such as Dropbox, Pinterest, Instagram, Reddit, and more have been built with Python (What Programming). Ruby has been used mostly for backend development and has been used on popular sites such as Airbnb, Shopify, Bloomberg, Hulu, and Slideshare (What Programming). Compared to C and C++, Perl, Python, and Ruby are recent additions to the programming world, and are free and open-source software so anybody is free to learn and contribute. 
	Of the script languages explored today, Ruby and Python seem to be the most logical languages to learn, at least if you are aiming to find a job using programming. Some of the other best languages to learn in 2016 would be Swift, C++, Java, and a few others. Happy coding! 


"Programming Languages: C++, Java, Python and Others." N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2016.

"The 9 Most In-Demand Programming Languages of 2016 - Coding Dojo Blog." Coding Dojo Blog. N.p., 26 Jan. 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2016.

"What Programming Language Should a Beginner Learn in 2016? | Codementor." What Programming Language Should a Beginner Learn in 2016? | Codementor. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2016.

"You Used Perl to Write WHAT?!" CIO. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2016.